The UK and Egypt will bring together more than 40 countries in Copenhagen this week to focus on what climate action needs to be taken to deliver key commitments ahead of COP27 in Sharm El-Sheikh in November.

In the first jointly led event by the UK and Egypt as COP26 and COP27 Presidencies, the May Ministerial Meeting on Implementation will take stock of action and implementation across key elements of the Glasgow Climate Pact signed at COP26, the Paris Agreement and other international climate agreements and decisions.

The Glasgow Climate Pact kept alive the goal of keeping global temperatures from rising more than 1.5 degrees, at the same time cementing progress on finance for climate action, adaptation and loss and damage.

However, the most recent report from the IPCC shows how the window to keep the 1.5C goal within reach is rapidly closing, and so ministers will focus on the practical action needed to drive progress on implementation and ambition of commitments made in Glasgow.

They will focus on how best to drive down emissions across major sectors of their societies - for example through reducing coal production and forest loss. They will look at the best approaches taken worldwide to adapt to the impacts of climate change, and to protect the most vulnerable. Ministers will consider action and support to address the loss and damage to communities on the frontline of climate change, considering early warning systems, emergency preparedness and disaster risk reduction, among other areas.

They will also consider examples for the emissions reductions needed to keep 1.5 degrees alive, as well as the steps they are taking to strengthen their climate action plans for 2030 this year. There will also be a clear focus on ensuring that finance flows to those who need it - for example in supporting countries in a just transition away from fossil fuels.

COP26 President Alok Sharma and Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry, COP27 President-Designate will co-chair the event, hosted by Denmark’s Minister of Climate and Energy, Dan Jørgensen.